

Version details 
Contacts
Additional utils


Welcome to the user guide for your program.
This manual will guide you using the control system to manage your flock.

The idea:
The flock is enclosed within a fenced area equipped with shelter and feeding trou￾ghs, where the sheep remain when the shepherd does not need to send them for
continuous grazing, where they spend 8 out of 24 hours daily.
Additionally, to ensure the flock’s health, each sheep is monitored via smart collar
that indicates the animal’s health status.
The decision to let the flock out of the enclosure is made by the shepherd, who
monitors the data from the sensors and assesses whether the sheep need to graze.
The flock is guided by four robotic dogs supervised by a shepherd, ensuring the
correct direction of the animals.
When the shepherd decides to begin grazing, the robotic dogs lead the sheep toward
a turnstile, where the sheep inside the enclosure are sorted according to the signals
from the collar, ensuring that only healthy sheep go out to graze, while the unheal￾thy ones remain inside the enclosure.
Three drones support the operation by providing proper mapping of the area, iden￾tifying water sources and potential dangers, guiding the flock, and gathering atmo￾spheric data.
After sorting, the flock is guided through obstacles and kept compact by the four
dogs, each of which covers a specific portion, following the path indicated by the
drones.
Additionally, the drones assist the dogs in identifying sheep that stray from the
flock, while also creating an obstacle-free and safe route, flat and not exceeding 8
hours of grazing, or 32 km, assuming the sheep walk at a speed of 4 km/h, with a
final return to the sheepfold.
To ensure the flock’s guidance, we assume that both the dogs and drones are equip￾ped with GPS and cameras.
When the number of sensors on the collars indicating fatigue exceeds a certain limit,
the drones monitoring the area generate a path to the nearest water source, free of
obstacles; once the route is generated, the information is sent to the dogs, which
ensure the correct direction towards the desired point.
We assume that the sheep are equal and exhibit random behavior in terms of illness,
straying from the group and fatigue.



Buttons information:
- Start: to start the program
- Task Manager: to manage the graze
- Weather: to visualize the weather conditions
- Program Overview: to get more information
- Quit: to exit the program

Information about drones

Information about robotic dogs

Additional information
